Add EP253 summary blog post (#2807)
quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io: _posts/2026-06-30-quarkus-insights-253-build-analytics.adoc

- **New users flat** — growth is coming from deeper engagement by existing users, not a surge of first-time adopters

Max observed that AI-assisted development likely explains part of the shift: developers using agents to write and run code may run fewer manual start-stop-start dev cycles, but still trigger dependency downloads and CI builds. The build analytics capture the latter but undercount the former.

== Operating System: Windows Takes the Lead

The most eye-catching slide: **Windows 11 is now the most-used OS among Quarkus developers**, overtaking macOS which held the top spot last year. Linux slipped slightly.

Bruno attributed this to two overlapping factors: a large migration from Windows 10 to Windows 11, and what looks like growing enterprise adoption — organizations where developers work on locked-down corporate Windows laptops. Max noted that in most developer tooling data over the years, Windows has consistently been around 30-40%, macOS around 30%, and Linux the remainder, so seeing Windows at the top is unusual and significant for prioritization decisions.

The data reinforces that Windows support is not optional for Quarkus.

== Geographic Spread

> Time zone is used as a geographic proxy. The top three cities by build activity were São Paulo (Brazil), Germany (multiple cities), and Kolkata (India). Bruno noted that China is growing fast — roughly doubling year-over-year — though time zone data for China is complicated because the country spans multiple natural time zones but uses a single official one, meaning builds may be spread across several time-zone labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Time zone is used as a geographic proxy. The top three cities by build activity were São Paulo (Brazil), Germany (multiple cities), and Kolkata (India). Bruno noted that China is growing fast — roughly doubling year-over-year — though time zone data for China is complicated because the country spans multiple natural time zones but uses a single official one, meaning a large number of users are concentrated in a single time zone.
```
